[Applause]
[Music]
what's up you guys Bob here from BBC
Mastery and in this episode I want to
talk about first party data segment
ideas for your audience signals to be
used inside of your Google ads campaigns
and this can be PMX campaigns but also
dedicated Opera funnel campaigns like
demand gen display YouTube whatever so
let's quickly start off with the wise
why is it so important to leverage first
party data well there are basically
Three core reasons and the first one is
better segmentation
first party data can be segmented the
way you like as an Advertiser and this
allows for more refined audience
targeting and segmentation in comparison
to all of the standard Google ads
audience segments like the in-market
audience segments and the Affinity lists
we all know number two is it leads to
higher relevancy first party data
reflects direct interactions with your
brand leading to more relevant signals
and therefore more relevant targeting
inside of your campaigns at least that's
what we're hoping for number three is a
competitive Advantage so your first
party data is unique to your brand and
it cannot be replicated by your direct
competitors so the better your you are
in utilizing your first body data and
creating very valuable segments the more
of an edge you will create in comparison
to your competitors
so in this video I want to touch on four
main verticals or buckets so to say we
have two main audience segment ideas for
different verticals that can be applied
to Legion software as a service and Ecom
and we have the other three buckets
Legion software as a surface SAS and
Ecom so we're going to touch on all of
these in this small episode so let's
quickly start off with the overall first
party data segments that can be used for
every type of business
so the first audience segment you can
create is engaged visitors
so these are uses who have spent a
significant amount of time on your
website or have visited multiple pages
so they have shown a genuine interest in
the content but haven't yet converted so
think about users who visited more than
two or three pages on your website and
or spend more than two minutes browsing
around all of the pages on your website
and ideally you want to segment out
users that have visited high value Pages
such as specific Services service Pages
or product detail Pages or feature pages
that feature specific segments of your
products for example your software tool
so this is the first
high value audience signal that you can
use based on a simple filtered
remarketing list for example
the second one is newsletter subscribers
and this can be applied to every single
business as well so people that have
subscribed to your newsletter have shown
interest in your services or products so
you want to upload all current active
newsletter subscribers or segment your
list into addresses with high open rates
so ideally you want to only target well
users that are highly engaged and that
are your ideal customer profiles so if
you have high volumes it's better to
segment out your newsletter list into
separate high value segments like the
the people that are engaging with your
newsletter every every single week
so those two
segments can basically be applied to all
of the different businesses then we have
the other three buckets so to say legion
Ecom and software as a service and let's
start off with some first party data
segment ideas for Legion the first one
that is well can be really impactful is
ungated content downloaders so these are
users who have downloaded ungated white
papers ebooks or other lead magnets on
your site but haven't really filled a
primary lead gen form like a contact
form or a demo request or a type of
order lead form that really defines them
as a lead so the key word here is
ungated
so these uses can be tracked by tracking
custom events and using these events to
populate a gf4 remarketing list that can
then be imported inside of your Google
ads account and that can then be used
inside of your audience segment ideas
audience segment targeting so let's see
first one ungated content downloaders
the second one is form abandoners so
people who have started filling out the
lead generation form but didn't complete
the process are highly interesting
profiles since they are very close to
converting and might just need a little
push from filling out the form to
actually becoming a lead so it's very
interesting to Target these kinds of
users inside a segmented list as well to
then use as a signal if you really lack
volumes in lists like primary leads or
qualified leads or even customers then
this is a great audience segment to use
in my opinion
number three is event attendees so these
are uses who have registered for
webinars seminars or workshops and
basically this shows a higher level of
interest and commitment so a few months
ago Mars and I hosted a PPC Mastery
event for our Discord members and well
every one that basically registered for
that event can be used as an audience
signal for one of our future campaigns
we're definitely not going to do that
since everything we do is basically all
organic but it is just an example
because all of these people can be well
can be potential clients of one of our
products for example
number four is qualified leads so those
who have shown interest in the past and
have been captured and marked as
qualified leads are highly interesting
profiles to be used inside of audience
segments as well so
preferably you want to Target qualified
leads and not leads as a total but if
you do not have the if you do not have a
lead scoring process in place or if you
lack the volumes to do so it's it's also
a great way to just upload all of the
leads that have well filled in a primary
form like a contact request a demo
request or whatever so basically those
are two options within number four
qualified leads or all of the leads
number five is basically all of your
past customers create a list of all
recent customers preferably segmented by
your ideal customers for example high
value customers and these are the leads
that have previously made significant
purchases because well you want to
Target or you want to upload the most
valuable customers to your audience list
eventually to give Google an idea about
who your ideal customer profiles are
because they represent your top tier in
terms of revenue generated and you would
like to have more of them if your list
becomes too small and if you have just a
few really high value customers and you
have more customers in your mid and low
range then consider to upload all of
these segments and just consider
uploading One customer list but it's
always better to segment them out if you
have the volumes and tell Google what
your will your ideal customer profiles
really are so there you have it five
ideas for Legion already
ungate the content downloaders form
abandoners event attendees qualified
leads or leads or high value customers
or customers if you lack the volume
so let's continue with SAS software as a
service
the first first party data segment idea
over here is free trial users so you
want to Target users who have already
signed up for a free trial but haven't
really upgraded to a paid plan yet what
you can do is basically use this list if
your customer list is too small or if
you want to Target more potentially
irrelevant Google users that are similar
to the ones that signed up for your free
trial so it's a great way to fill your
audience list and audience targeting
upon number two is incomplete setups
so these are uses we'll begin setting up
their software account or their product
or tool but didn't really complete all
the necessary steps so if you lack the
volumes once again in terms of customer
profiles people that actually are paying
for a plan right now then this can be an
interesting list to upload as well this
is not my go-to list but if you're
missing volumes then it could be an
interesting one to consider number three
are frequent users and these are really
regularly regular users who can
potentially be brand Advocates since
they are using your product or tool
every single day and way more frequent
than similar profiles so if this list is
big enough you can use this list to
Signal Google ads how your ideal
customer profile looks like and that you
want to Target more of them and your
goal is in essentially to obtain as many
as potentially potential brand Advocates
Advocates as possible so this can be a
highly interesting audience signal to be
you to be used as well
number four is users per different tier
level so if you are using different
tiers for your product or tool then you
want to create segments per tier for
example if you have a basic premium
Enterprise level a subscription model
then make sure to upload your customers
according to the plan they have been
subscribed to right now
then ideally if your lists are big
enough you want to Target the segments
that are of most value to you and the I
and and by that you signal to Google The
Google Google profiles that you would
like to Target well more of that you
would like to have more of so if you
have the volumes Target for example the
Enterprise level subscribers or the
premium level subscribers if you lack
the volumes then just Target all of the
people currently subscribe to your
product or service
number five is labsed customers so if
previous segments are small then you can
consider uploading customers who have
already had a subscription but have
canceled in the past so you can also
create different segments if you'd like
you can also a segment Labs customers on
their tier level basic premium
Enterprise level whatever materials
you're using you can also segment based
on customer lifetime value how valuable
they have been to you in the past
Etc so if you lack volumes lapsed
customers is always is also a great
signal to use inside of your audience
list targeting
all right there we have it so to recap
five audience signal ideas for SAS free
trial users incomplete setups frequent
users that can be your brand Advocates
uses per different tier level ideally in
the the tier that may that is the most
valuable to you and where you would like
to sell sell more of and lastly labsed
customers that have been and that that's
subscribed in the past
then finally we have the last bucket
e-commerce so firstly you can create a
audience list based on wish list
creators if you have a wish list and
these are people who have interacted
with your site and have added certain
products or multiple products to their
wish lists or favorite lists they have a
clear intent and basically you can tell
Google that you want to Target more
Google users like them because they have
shown interest and hopefully they are
close to converting so that's audience
signal idea number one number two and
that's a combined one and this one is
really familiar to most of you that is
abundant Behavior audience signals so we
basically have two variants we have one
cart abandoners and two checkout
drop-offs so looking at Carter banners
these are individuals users with added
products to their cards but didn't
finalize the purchase so they are one of
the hottest segments to Target because
they have also shown clear intent but
didn't didn't went through and started
the checkout process then we have to
check out drop-offs these are users that
have shown a higher intent to purchase
compared to those who just added items
to the cart so they have taken several
steps to complete the transaction but
left for some reason right before making
the purchase so these are all
remarketing lists that you can populate
through gf4 for example and import to
Google stats and then use as a segment
within your audience signal or segment
number three is best purchases so you
can create different segments based on
the purchase and purchase Behavior the
purchase history and the purchase
behavior of your clients so we we
basically have five core segments of
past purchases so the first one is
category repeat buyers and these are
people who often buy from the same
category so let's say you have 10 main
categories in place and you want to
create a audience segment of people that
are buying diapers every single month so
what you can do is create multiple
audience segments for those types of
repeat category buyers that you can then
Target in specific category audience
segments like let's say you want to run
a performance Max campaign for selling
diapers then you can Target repeats
category buyers of people that regularly
buy diapers so to say and no I'm not
having a kid yet this is just something
that just popped up in my head so number
two is seasonal Shoppers users will
mainly shop during specific Seasons or
holidays for example those who bought
winter gear last year might be
interested in New Winter rifles next
year or this year and this is
particularly interesting for fashion
e-commerce e-commerce store owners let's
say a new season season stock drops next
month then you can basically create a
list of every single customer that have
purchased within the first couple of
weeks of that new stock drop last year
and then try to Target or signal to
Google that those are the profiles
you're looking for because those might
be the first movers the first one that
likes to like to shop as soon as a new
product category stock gets dropped for
example
then we have a brand loyalist so those
are Shoppers who consistently buy a
specific brand from your store so let's
say you have a big store and you see
that some of your clients frequently buy
Samsung Galaxy mobile phones every
single year so every single year you
have a bunch of clients buying the same
product over and over again once a new
version has been released so you can
Target those kinds of brand loyalists
that are an ideal segment to use if you
are running specific the campaigns or ad
groups or asset groups for a specific
brands or specific Brands times
categories so you can go highly specific
for these segments and these segments
are mainly interesting for the big boys
the ones that are sitting on a lot of
data points a lot of customer customer
profiles but maybe if you're doing less
lesser volume these can be interesting
for you as well just make sure that
you're big just make sure that your list
stays big enough
so then we have discount hunters and
this is an interesting list as well
especially if you are if you are pushing
specific campaigns during sale periods
or big events like Black Friday or Cyber
Monday what you can do is basically
create a list of all users that
frequently make purchases during sales
or sale periods and or use specific
discount codes so once again this is
ideal if you want to Target lookalike
profiles that also tend to shop during
well sale periods or events like Black
Friday and Cyber Monday that are coming
up in a few months already
and lastly we can make a high ticket
buyer segment of the people that have
purchased in the past and those are
users will frequently make high value
purchases you can use this list in your
audience segment signals to let Google
look for users with similar
characteristics so if you want more High
ticket buyers then well you might want
to instruct Google to to go and look
after them using a separate segmented
past purchases list
so lastly we have a idea
that is around a loyalty program
so what you can do is if you have a
loyalty program set up as an e-commerce
player this can be online and or offline
you can create a segment of all of your
most loyal customers that are frequent
buyers of you of yours that are well
coming back and using their loyalty
cards almost every single time and you
upload them as a customer list instead
of Google ads use it as a signal to
Signal Google ads that you want to look
for more Google profiles that have
similar characteristics so that's the
last one that could be highly
interesting to be to use if you have a
loyalty program of course so let's recap
for Ecom we have wishlist creators we
have Carter banners checkout drop-offs
we have the big segment past purchases
which can be segmented out in category
repeat buyers seasonal Shoppers brand
loyal loyaltists discount Hunters and
high ticket buyers and lastly we have
loyalty program members so these are
just some of the first party segment
list ideas you can create there are way
more but I think these are the most
interesting segments that you can create
per vertical or per account type so
hopefully this was of a great value to
you if it was let me know below this
post below this video and hopefully see
you in the next video ciao
[Music]
thank you